# Centralized Single Node Blockchain in Python
_Developed by Andrew Dykema for Python 3.9.6+_

## Why did I choose to build this?
Because I love it! No, but more seriously I chose this project for myself as an exercise working with the data structures, designs, best practices and workflows which are present within blockchain technology. Starting back in early 2017, when I first became infatuated with Bitcoin and the cryptocurrency space, I was constantly reading about exploring the new developments and inventions built upon this new blockchain paradigm. This was back when I was in high school, so at this point I had very little programming knowledge or skill outside of the Java basics class I took junior year. Later on into 2019, when I was accepted in the UMass' Computer Science program, I gained loads of programming skills, experience, and confidence all while keeping up with the cryptosphere. In the first semester of sophomore year of college, when my interest for blockchain continued to grow along with my practical skills, finding my way into the blockchain sector of the tech industry seemed like it could be a not-so distant dream. I decided to take the plunge and start to give myself some real exposure to the technical world of blockchain now that I have a better perspective of programming and computer science. In October of 2020, I made my first commit to my first attempt at building a self-contained blockchain node within my blockchainProject repo, from which I converted to independent_chain_project which is closer to the vision I originally imagined for a blockchain project.
  
## What does "Centralized Single Node" mean?
Centralized Single Node refers to where the chain exists. For this specific project, I have no intentions of creating a blockchain which exists on a network and decided to start smaller. Because of this, all operations occur and exists solely on the computer it is run on. This is because proper networking skills are currently a little out of my realm of expertise at the moment. This project was to focus more on individual algorithms and data strutures as well as practices and protocols within blockchain. In the future, I plan to take what I have learned from the research, mistakes, and successes had during the building of this project and implement it into a more fleshed out blockchain, possibly one which exists on a public network.


_To run in container: docker run -it --rm -v "$(pwd)":/src chain_dev_container bash_
